today we're making shepherd's pie now
this is a healthy recipe I'm going to be
using ground lamb and we're gonna dress
it up with some nice healthy spices like
turmeric and cinnamon and we're gonna
cut back a little bit on our mashed
potatoes and we're gonna replace some of
that with some butternut squash so if
that sounds good to you stay right here
I'm rockin Robin and I'll show you how
to do it right after this are you ready
to go over our ingredients and get
started okay let's do it here's our
ground lamb we've got a little over a
pound there and this dish here I've got
a combination of onion carrot and celery
with the superfine dice and I've got
some frozen peas some fresh zucchini out
of my garden by the way fresh basil out
of my garden here I have a couple about
three russet potatoes and I've got some
butternut squash and here's our spices I
got turmeric ground cinnamon and ground
cumin and then we're gonna finish it off
with some chicken broth I got some fresh
minced garlic some butter and a little
bit of salt and pepper and over here
I've got a little bit of coconut milk
and you can substitute half and a half
if you like if you don't like coconut
milk we are gonna start off our recipe
by browning our Lambs so I've got my
flame over here on medium-high I'm gonna
put a little bit of oil in the pan I
didn't mention that in the beginning and
I was giving you the all the ingredients
but just a little bit of oil get this
started off slide that in there all
right now we're cooking I'm gonna go
ahead and toss in my onions
carrots and celery I'm gonna add a
little bit of salt for this right now
just a little toss of salt in there and
I'll show you what this looks like once
everything's cooked up while the lamb
mixture is cooking we're gonna pour our
potatoes in our butternut squash into a
steamer and I'm gonna go ahead and keep
sort of keep them separated I'll put the
potatoes in one side and the squash on
the other side because we're gonna
separate these out when they're done
cooking and we'll just cook these until
they are nice and fork tender
my lamb mixture here has been cooking
for about six to eight minutes I think
you can see here there's a quite a bit
of fat and I'm gonna drain that off so
now we're ready to add the minced garlic
I'll just spread that in there and
spread that all around the best you can
get it to the heat so it nulls out that
flavor and we're gonna let this saute
here for just about a minute and then
we're gonna add the rest of our spices
now I'm using a quarter of a teaspoon
and you can do as much of this as you
like so here's the cinnamon first here's
our cumin do the same thing and turmeric
turmeric is such a healthy spice guys I
try and sneak it in whenever I can and
this is a great recipe for this and then
I'm gonna add a little bit of my chicken
broth that's just gonna help liquefy
those spices and make sure that they
distribute pretty well and stir that
around and I'm probably gonna give it a
taste because I want to see if I want
more spice now it's time to add my
zucchini and the peas the zucchini and
peas don't take very long to cook so I'm
gonna cover this pot keep it on low and
just keep everything nice and hot until
ready to ascend our potatoes are done
and I'm separating them into two bowls
like I mentioned earlier and you also
want to heat up your coconut milk and
butter together which I'm gonna do in
just a second here or if you're using
half-and-half or cream you're gonna want
to heat that up first in the microwave
for just a few minutes get it nice and
hot so that when you add it to your
potato butternut squash it doesn't cool
it off and everything stays nice and hot
time to mash our potatoes all right we
could start with either one doesn't
matter we're going to take our mixture
and we're gonna pour half of it into the
potatoes and the other half into the
butternut squash and this coconut milk
is going to give it a nice rich flavor
so we'll just mash this up and of course
we have to add some salt add a little
bit of salt to this go ahead and add a
sprinkle to that you can do pepper if
you like - this side all right now that
we got the mashed potatoes done we're
gonna move into the butternut squash and
don't be afraid to add a little more
milk to your potatoes it just depends I
mean it's not an exact science so just
get the consistency that you like and
I'm also going to add a little bit of
cinnamon to my butternut squash just cuz
I think it goes really really well with
it I'm just gonna sprinkle a little bit
on there maybe an eighth of a teaspoon
and I'm gonna do a little more turmeric
once that's all blended up then we'll be
able to put the whole casserole together
all right we are ready to put this
little thing together I'm gonna go ahead
and chop up my basil I haven't done that
yet I'm gonna do it just a little ship
and odd or we just roll up the leaves
together and just give it a nice little
slice enough take my butternut squash
and we're gonna layer it into the bottom
of my 9 by 13 now I have my oven
preheating to 450 no 400 degrees
Fahrenheit and I'm gonna first pour my
butternut squash on the bottom of my
dish we're just gonna make a nice thin
layer sprinkle the basil into my meat
mixture but I'm gonna go ahead and just
layer this in I'm gonna pour it in but
I'm afraid that it might disturb my
butternut squash so I'm just gonna
sprinkle it on we'll call it that I've
been having an interesting day today
first of all I have no running water in
my kitchen believe it or not can't wash
dishes all what a shame
yeah I had to had to turn off the water
to the house because a sprinkler valve
broke and right in the middle of all
this and I'm like that's okay I can deal
with it I can get this done no problem
but the water thing I tell you it really
makes you
appreciate water when you don't have it
we take so much for granted okay so I'm
spreading this on here and as you can
see trying to get a nice thin layer with
this so I barely got this thing covered
with the mashed potatoes but we made it
and you can see the three layers right
here on the bottom we're gonna pop this
in the oven 400 degrees Fahrenheit for
about 15 minutes or until it's nice and
hot I just took the casserole out of the
oven and it is sizzling hot so I'm gonna
go ahead and serve this up see if I can
get it out so I have a question for you
guys what do you call this dish
shepherd's pie when it's made with
ground beef instead of lamb okay I'll
help here we go that bottom layer this
smells so incredible so guys try this
recipe it smells amazing all those
flavors right here we go as I'm diving
in let's take a little bit of that
butternut squash at the bottom get a
little bit of that topping there and the
insides with the with the lamb mmm those
flavors are amazing very good I hope you
guys will try this recipe leave me a
comment if you do tell me what you think
I really like to hear from you alright
everybody if you haven't subscribed to
my channel yet be sure and click that
button right up there and you'll be
notified of new videos that come out
with every week thank you so much
everybody I really appreciate all your
support and your kind comments all right
that's it for today I'll see you next
time take care